---
layout: post
title:  Occalight
date:   2013-07-14 13:20:34 +0200
categories: case
excerpt: Social innovation
quote: '"designing an artefact for the rural ways of living"'
agency: Academic
client: DESIS
skill: Service Design
---
I participated in a month-long workshop organised by the DESIS Network in China, whose vision is to practice design thinking while performing global social innovation.

#### Workshop brief:
“Object that carries Culture: designing an artefact for the rural ways of living”.  Here, culture has two meanings: local heritage and the latest technology. The result of the workshop will be a part of Shanghai Design Week and Nordic Design Week in Shanghai 2013.

I teamed up with two students from Tongji University, and together we spent the first two weeks in the Chinese countryside interviewing local artisans and learned about Chinese culture and history.

<iframe width="100%" height="400px" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/3Lvo9G86dKs?rel=0" allowfullscreen="" frameborder="0"></iframe>

#### Research learnings:
* Locals were proud of their heritage
* Even though living a simple life they were pleased
* They were worried about younger people moving into cities
* Many city-people had never been out on the countryside
* Nature has a symbolic meaning in Chinese culture but is starting to be forgotten by the younger generation

For the second part of the workshop, we went back to Shanghai and started exploring ideas for our final concept. When combining the research insights with the project brief, we identified three fundamental questions to investigate.
1. How can urban kids learn about craftsmanships?
2. How can we bridge the gap between urban and rural people?
3. How can we make sure that people from cities take time to visit the countryside?

{% include figure.html file="desis_3.jpg" alt="Light installation concept in Shanghai" %}

We quickly got hooked on the idea of using lights when we pondered back on the starry sky and all the fireflies in the countryside. If there were a way to be remembered about that special occasion or any other particular moment which were only accessible outside the city. Some iterations later we had an idea we were confident with and moved on.

{% include figure.html file="desis_4.jpg" alt="Occation after season" %}

We named our final concept The Occalight which was an installation art concept consisting of handmade lamps to hang in city parks and which changed colours depending on what was happening in the nearby countryside. For instance, when the lavenders were blooming the lights would be purple, and people who were strolling by could use their smartphones and get information about the event and how to get there to experience it themselves.

The concept was also meant to be directed towards kids since they could be part of producing the lamps as an after-school activity. The material would be bamboo from local areas which were laser cut and made into pieces for them to assemble,  like a 3D puzzle.

{% include figure.html file="desis_2.jpg" alt="3D puzzle" %}
