---
layout: post
title:  MEMOPlanner
date:   2015-07-14 13:20:34 +0200
categories: case
excerpt: Design Lead
quote: '"Do not know if someone has told you that MEMOPlanner 3 has become a great success? Sales have increased enormously, both in Sweden and Norway, and is by far the most important product for Abilia"'
agency: Sigma IT
client: Abilia
skill: Design Lead
---
Information provided here does not necessarily reflect the views of {{ page.client }} or {{ page.agency }}.
{: .disclaimer}

Is the web really for everyone? No, it’s not. There is a group of people who are foreseen by not being able to browse websites nor use apps like most of do on a daily basis. Abilia develop products to make sure these people become more independent and can take control of their everyday life.

I was Design Lead for the work in developing the new version of MEMOPlanner, helping people with cognitive impairments become more independent in their life.

#### Goals:
* Redesign MEMOPlanner
* Design new UI patterns
* Keep key features
* Deliver graphics
* Craft wireframes
* Put together a design guideline for the developers

{% include figure.html file="abilia-memoplanner-1.jpg" alt="Tablet with MEMOPlanner app" %}

A cognitive disorder can affect a person in different ways such as experiencing difficulties with learning, memory, perception and problem-solving. Not being able to structure the day might lead to stress and anxiety.

It’s a separate user group as there is a broad spectrum of how functional users are. Some people need a friendly reminder about daily activities while others need help with remembering what day it is and getting help with when to eat.

{% include figure.html file="abilia-memoplanner-2.jpg" alt="Tablet with MEMOPlanner app" %}

#### Process:
1. Research user group
2. Define hypotheses
3. Iterate concepts
4. Final design

No usability testing, with the primary user group, could be done until after product launch due to regulations. Design decisions were based on hypotheses supported by research and best practice.

I started by reading literature and interviewing internally, focusing on trying to understand the difference between mild and severe cognitive disabilities. It gave me a general picture of what problems people within the group experience and I could then form hypotheses.

#### Tools:
* Balsamiq
* Photoshop
* Illustrator
* InVision

From here it continued as an agile project as I started working with the technical and product management side. I was one sprint ahead with designing graphics. Together we defined functionality simultaneously as I iterated concepts for managers to sign off.

{% include figure.html file="abilia-memoplanner-4.svg" alt="MEMOPlanner icons" %}

#### Platforms:
* Android
* Web

{% include figure.html file="abilia-memoplanner-3.jpg" alt="Tablet with MEMOPlanner app" %}

MEMOPlanner was launched in December 2016 and have been praised by its users ever since.

#### In retrospect:
* Define specific and measurable goals together with the client
* Define personal expectations and ask for the same
* Use internal knowledge but dare to challenge
* Everyone has the right to have a digital life

<iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/f8E_wsJEo2s?rel=0&amp;showinfo=0" width="100%" height="400px" allowfullscreen="" frameborder="0"></iframe>
